The following comes from the "Security AD" tab of this URL:
	https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2017/expertise/

It is unfortunate that the tabs are not directly addressable.

----------------------


This is the summary of the required expertise for the position Security AD

Security

The Security Area primarily focuses on protocols that provide one or more
security services -- integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and access
control -- and on protocols operating on infrastructure that provides such
security services. Many security mechanisms that are needed to provide these
security services employ the use of cryptography. In addition to traditional
security issues, the privacy and usability of IETF protocols has become an
important consideration.

Specific expertise required for a Security AD includes a strong working
knowledge of IETF security protocols and mechanisms that have been developed
in the Security Area, other Areas of the IETF, and outside the IETF. It is
also important for Security ADs to understand the practical aspects of
securing Internet resources, such as techniques for denial- of-service
mitigation or for securing Web applications. A good understanding of threat
modeling and risk assessment as well as operational and industry practices is
also beneficial.

Between the two Security ADs there will ideally be one who is knowledgeable
about each of the following security protocols: PKIX, IPsec, TLS, SASL,
GSS-API, EAP, CMS, and S/MIME. Ideally at least one AD should be knowledgeable
about web security, threat and policy management, as well as system integrity
(RFC4949).

The Security Area intersects with all other IETF Areas, and the Security ADs
are expected to read and understand the security implications of documents
produced by all IETF Areas. Security ADs become personally involved and
coordinate the involvement of other security experts in the work of other
Areas. Broad knowledge of IETF areas and technologies and the ability to
assimilate new information quickly are imperative for a Security AD.

