1. NAME AND CONTACT INFO

Rich Salz
Akamai Technologies
rsalz@akamai.com
rich.salz@gmail.com
1 781 789 3974 (cell)
EST5EDT
Resume at:
    --URL removed--

2. EXPERIENCE AND LEADERSHIP

I am an architect at Akamai, where I do security-focused designs and
reviews. My goal is to make things more secure, but also simpler to
configure. I also am a member of the OpenSSL development team, where
some of my major contributions include project governance, code
quality, and ease-of-use (e.g., the command-line apps).

Previously I was a senior designer and developer. I have been working
on security for more than 20 years, from large services (Akamai) down
to appliances (IBM/DataPower) to a variety of failed start-ups. Many
of these were/are on the leading edge of Internet security standards
and Web Services.

Throughout my career, then, I have been involved in both the
specification of standards, and their implementation.  I know that
because of my work on development and deployment, I have been able to
positively influence many standards activities at places like IETF, W3C,
and OASIS.

Comparitively recently, I became co-chair of two IETF WG's, ACME and
CURDLE.

2.2 Name the two or three most important areas of technical work...

I am a member of the OpenSSL development team.  It's value and
importance should be obvious (positive and negative:)

I developed the de facto standard implementation of NNTP.  While port
119 has largely whithered in favor of 80, it was impressive at the
time.

I was heavily involved in the specification and implementation of
various WebServices standards, most notably SOAP and the various
WS-security related documents.  I still think the goal, as expressed
by the IBM/Microsoft paper, https://www.w3.org/2001/03/WSWS-popa/paper51,
is a noble one and could have ultimately led to a more open Web.

2.3 How will you manage competing time ...

My management chain (up to the VP level) fully supports me in this
position and understands the time commitment.  From discussions I've
had, I know Stephen has set a pretty high bar by reading all drafts
that come to the IESG, and my goal is to match that, in relatively
short time.

2.4 Describe your experiences in any IETF cross-area work that you have
undertaken.

Various WG chairs and AD's have asked me to join design teams in order
to help them address security issues that were (usually) found during
IESG review.  I have done this for various documents in the CDNI and NTP
WG's.  I am still involved in NTP security design group; it is really a
suite of protocols, and presents some interesting challenges.

2.5 If you are an incumbent or past AD ...

n/a

2.6 Consider the Co-AD(s) in the area in which you have been ...

I would defer to Kathleen to set up an initial list, and then sync up
with her at least before each IETF meeting to look at what needs to be
rebalanced.  I want to strongly leverage the fact that we could easily
meet in person. I would expect to give up my co-chair roles.  Other
then that, I have no strong feelings or plans.

2.7 Please indicate if you have experience being ...

I am a member of the board of directors of my church, which has around
250 members. We set budget (around $500K), personnel, policies, etc.
I have been on the board for the high school band, which varies
between 50-150 students and their families.  We set ancilliary budget,
marshall volunteers, and fund-raise.

From these organizations, I have seen that mutual trust and respect
among the leadership is crucial.  Especially for a
globally-distributed organization like the IETF, each member must feel
comfortable relying on and deferring to others. Equally important,
from the leadership to the general organization, the most important
characteristic is transparency, both real and perceived.  The general
membership must feel engaged, and that they know "what's going on."
The recent Singapore fiasco shows how important this is.

2.8 Soft Skills: Please comment on your soft skills ...

I have worked in many startups, where things can get tense.  I have
worked on many SDO groups where things can get tense.  I've lived
several decades and raised three kids, which can get tense.

In short, like anyone who has been around, I have a great deal of
experience with tense experiences.  I'm a nice guy with a good sense
of humor :) Everybody likes me.  Feel free to take that previous
sentence as an example of my sense of humor, if you can't just take it
as gospel.

When things heat up, it is important to recognize the basic humanity
of those on "the other side" and back off to take a break and let
things cool down. I believe that I have enough self-awareness so that
I am more often an actor that reduces conflict, then one who increases
it.  I don't have a perfect record in this area; nobody does.

As for working in groups, my preferred mode is to work bottom-up and
build up agreement in small groups (even 1:1 as needed), and then move
up to larger groups.  In the IETF for example, if a WG appears to be
stuck I would first meet with the chairs, and then go out to the
larger WG.

I have been doing email since the UUCP days, when I got one of the
first MX domains (mirror.tmc.com).  I understand its limitations.  I
would often bend over backwards (stay up late/early) to enable
voice-based communication when untangling notty situations.

3. IETF

I think the IETF can, and should, be the leading organization that
defines the standards for different pieces of the Internet to
communicate. It does this by writing specifications that makes sense to
implement and deploy.

Our biggest problem would seem to be that fast-moving Internet
companies are not working with us.  I think that's a symptom, and that
we need to become more representative of the Internet-using community,
which is to say, more representative of the world.  As I said in my
Berline IETF PK talk, look at what we use for video and remote
participation compared to what the rest of the world does.  (Talks are
at http://snaggletooth.akam.ai/Berlin-videos/; click Next until you
get to "file 7")

We are effective because we have global infrastructure companies
heavily participating, and if we work on the lower layers (up through,
say, JSON) it will get deployed.

I am not sure how important it is to grow new work.  As Feynman said,
there's plenty of room at the bottom. :)  I am not sure that I totally
accept this view, but I do not think we are in a "grow or die" state.

Better representation should naturally result in more work.

Collaborating with similarly-old-schoool SDO's will not bring us more
work that is vital or necessarily worth doing.

I created the ietf-hub-boston mailing list and organized its first
function.  I also  participated in some of the "hub" meetings at
previous IETF's.

4. IESG

Background: The desired expertise for IESG positions is found at
https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2016/expertise/

4.1 What one item in this description do you find least ...

I am not sure if the "match the cost" paragraph is accurate.  It seems
to me that this cost trade-off has been left to the WG's, and that the
AD role is oversight, and raising issues that have not come up before
during the IESG phase.  This behavior seems reasonable to me.

4.2 What one item in this description do you find most fully ...

The overlap and intersection with the other areas.  I think Security
has been unique in this so far, but as we are seeing things like QUIC
collapsing the layers, we will see more of it.  It will be an
interesting time for the IETF/IESG

4.3 What one item ...

Catcalling and drinking during the plenary? :)

I think I would be best at working with my colleagues, and helping set
and follow an overall direction.  I think it will be hard, at first,
to set the right balance between authority/leadership and letting the
WG's do what they want. I would expect to be more in hands-off mode at
first, until I grow into the role.

4.4 What would you suggest to shrink the time commitment ...

I don't know.  I will be thinking about this as I start the job.  I
think the security directorate has too much dead wood on it, and that
we need to really increase the number of reviewers.

4.5) How do you see area directorates aiding ADs for a particular Area?

See above.  Perhaps getting more involved in "security area policy"
would engage the directorate, but perhaps not.  I don't yet know.

5. THE AREA

5.1 What do you think is going well ...

I think things are going pretty well.  We understand the threat of
nation-state actors and are working to address it.  I see that QUIC
will drive "TLS key exchange as a service" which could have a great
deal of potential for use by other protocols.

I like the renewed CFRG and the ability to use it as a "local expert"
for other security work.

5.2 What new work do you see likely to arrive in the area? 

On the cryptographic level: new curves, post-quantum crypto.  On the
more interesting level: move up the stack to thinks like DNS, NTP,
etc..

And of course, the current billion-dollar question: what about
blockchain?  I don't know.

I am inclined to more BoFs before a WG starts.

6. INTERACTIONS WITH OTHER ADS

6.1 DISCUSS ballots

I would hope that before a DISCUSS is posted, there's an email and an
offer to reach out and talk first.  I know that's not always possible,
given timezones and the way reviews are likely to be deadline-driven.

I have no specific hard-and-fast rules on when I would say DISCUSS.  I
have a great deal of learning to do, and while I would generally defer
to other areas, security (as mentioned in the expertise page) is a
horizontal aspect.

6.2 How do you see your role as an AD in moving documents ...

Perhaps it's like a PhD defense, where the rest of the IESG is the
committee.  Like I discussed above, trust in the WG means that I
should able to argue "in favor" of the WG docs when they get to the
IESG.  If I cannot do that, then I think I failed to properly work
with the WG and its chairs.

I have discussed the security directorate above.  I most definitely DO
NOT see it as a QA review.

7. TALENT AND CHAIR MANAGEMENT

n/a

8 CONFLICTS BETWEEN MANAGER ROLE AND TECHNICAL CONTRIBUTION

I would expect to resign my WG chair positions.  Ironically, this
might give me more freedom to talk "at the mic"  But I would not do
so.  You cannot learn when your mouth is open.  And there are
definitely people who might participate, but who are inhibited by the
typical "free and frank" level of discourse at the IETF.  I have had
meetings with China folks where I explicitly warned them about this.

I will still be involved in implementations, and would stay current that way. 

As for conflicts with the WG, I'd only be one.  If I'm in the rough
and outside consensus, so be it.  There are very few areas that I feel
so passionately that I would be even the slightest bit tempted to
"cheat"  Since I am *strongly* in favor of transparency, it should be
obvious if I am doing that, and I would hope to be called on it.

For example, I am an Akamai employee, and they would be paying me to
do this job.  As a result, I think using a hosted email solution is
kind of a facade.  I would not do that.

9. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

I know at least one other person who is running: ekr. He would be
good, and I could not fault you if you choose him over me.  But I
would be sad because it would close my window to be Security AD, as I
will not run to be a second white male in this role.

=============================================================

10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION - NOT FOR CONFIRMING BODY

n/a

END OF SECTION: NOT FOR CONFIRMING BODY
