=============================================================

> 1. NAME AND CONTACT INFO

Rich Salz
Akamai Technologies, Inc
rsalz@akamai.com
+1 781 789 3974 (cell)
EST5EDT
Resume at
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CX1hkfiid-L9SsSmdl9pqUvJGhM4ZPhGB6nbEBxXdy8/edit?usp=sharing
or, if HTTP to a third-party service is acceptable,
    http://tinyurl.com/richsalz-resume

> 2. EXPERIENCE AND LEADERSHIP

Much of my professional work is summarized in my resume.  I will expand on
the philosophy and approach.  My focus has been on privacy and integrity
for data in transit (typically TLS) and data at rest (typically PKI/PKCS).
I have not been heavily involved in IoT, other than as a bystander.

At Akamai, I do security-focused designs and reviews. My goal is to make
things more secure, but also simpler to configure.  I also am a member of the
OpenSSL development team, where some of my major contributions include project
governance, code quality, and ease-of-use such as the command-line apps and a
script to find "doc nits" (the concept and name were taken directly from the
IETF tooling).

Previously I was a senior designer and developer. I have been working on
security for more than 20 years, from large services (Akamai) to appliances
(IBM/DataPower) to a variety of failed start-ups. Many of these are, or were,
on the leading edge of Internet security standards and Web Services.

Throughout my career, then, I have been involved in both the specification of
standards, and their implementation.  Interop uber alles[1]. I have been a
customer more than I have been a vendor, and I hate lock-in to propietary
protocols and formats.  On the other side, if a bunch of engineers in a closed
room design something that feels to meet real needs or cannot be implemented,
that is just as bad.  I worry about secure BGP falling into an abyss similar
to IPsec.

I know that because of my work on development and deployment, I have been able
to positively influence many standards activities at places like IETF, W3C,
and OASIS.

I am co-chair of three IETGF WG's: ACME, CURDLE, and DCRUP. I just realized
that of them are focused on how to make modern cryptography applicable and
usable.

> 2.2  Name the two or three most important areas of technical work...

OpenSSL is the one that is the most visible.  Its importance should speak for
itself. I joined after heartbleed, and was part of the group that really
resurrected the project. I got my employer to fund TLS 1.3 development so that
it would be globally available. I did many (at one point, most) of the code
reviews for the TLS 1.3 implementation in OpenSSL.

Another visible one is INN, which became the default implementation of NNTP.
While port 119 has largely vanished in favor of 443/80, it had a profound
impact in its time.

Akamai customers will see DV certs and ACME integration with LetsEncrypt. They
will also appreciate "cipher profiles" which allowed Akamai to have a name for
various cipher-sets and configuration, rather than hand-coded OpenSSL cipher
strings. This allows Akamai and its customers to be more responsive when
changes in cryptographic best practices are needed, or to more easily enable
new features like PFS or TLS 1.3; simply choose from a pulldown.

> 2.3 How will you manage competing time demands...

My management chain has approved this.  Some of the early feedback I heard
was, "will you still be able to work on OpenSSL?"  Yes :)  I am happy to work
at a company that recognizes the importance of the IETF, particularly
security, and is willing to put its money where its mouth is.

If the question is more about "how will I prioritize when there's just too
much work to do," that is slightly different.  I would focus on enabling
working groups to get their job done, and then on IESG-specific tasks.

> Are you willing and able to commit your time to complete IESG tasks...

(Nit: this should have been 2.4, no?)

Yes.  Regular "secdir" meetings show that I am one of the biggest reviewers,
in terms of page counts.  While the stats don't show it, my reviews have
almost always been done on-time.  If an AD can be on secdir, I will maintain
this.  I have dialed in to a couple of IESG calls, and looked at the document
flow. I think I am fairly well aware of the work, and amount of reading and
study, involved.  I have much to learn.

> 2.4 Describe your experiences in any IETF cross-area work...

I am co-chair of a working group in applications, DRUP. I spent a fair amount
of time at the past IETF "hanging out" with mail folks and learned a lot.
I participate in NTP/TICTOC, providing my security and IETF experience (I
think using "expertise" would be overstating it).

I watched TCPENC try to decide between a well-defined protocol, and a vague
statement of "just use TLS."

Also, security is by its definition, cross-area.  I make it a point to attend
some WG's that I am not normally involved with.

> 2.5 If you are an incumbent or past AD...

N/A

> 2.6 Consider the Co-AD(s) in the area in which you have been

I do not know as much about cryptography as my co-AD. But I think I think I
have a better feeling for widespread use of security protocols and techniques
as I am not browser-focused.

For the first few months at least, I'm willing to be the junior member of the
team.  My default answer to any division of labor would be okay, unless I felt
strongly that there were conflicts of interest or other important issues.

> 2.7 Please indicate if you have experience being on a Senior Management

I have been part of the OpenSSL team for several years, since shortly after
HeartBleed. I have been driving the efforts to change to the Apache2
license, am the official contact between OpenSSL and LF/CII, and am also a
fairly active developer and code reviewer. I wrote the code of conduct, and
continue to be an activist for increased transparency within the project.

For the third year, I am on the Governing Board of my church, the UU Church
of Reading. It's annual budget is close to $400K, including salary for the
minister and professional staff. The biggest challenge is how to manage a
church and its budget, while maintaining a commitment to our principles
of faith.  For example, we can't afford to pay Dental Insurance for all
staff, and we don't want a two-tier benefit system.

I am on the Board of the high school band parents organization (BPO).  This is
my second year while supporting my youngest son; I have previously been on the
board for three years supporting his two older brothers.  The BPO does
fundraising and coordinating volunteers for the marching band and its events
(e.g., parades). It has an annual budget of several tens of thousands of
dollars.

> Please share some of key skills and insights you gained...

How to work with others, in a small group during stressful times, and how
to show a uniform voice to the larger body.  How to think outside the box
to address important issues.  Ways to motivate the larger community to 
raise to challenges, without being defeatist.  There are no easy answers to
these questions, nothing that will "just work" for most circumstances, but
having had experience with these difficult situations is often enough to
provide a leg up on finding answers.

Most importantly, it is important to recall that during stressful times we are
all seeking answers to the same goals, and even when we disagree it must be
respectful; loss of comity is often worse than loss of revenue or membership.
In addition to trust among the leadership, there must also be trust between
the leadership and the general membership. In my view, that means that full
transparency is important for people to feel they are engaged; they don't
think so if they don't know what's going on.  The OpenSSL pre- and
post-Heartbleed situations are excellent examples of this.

> 2.8  Soft Skills:  Please comment on your soft skills

There are two key points: step back and take a breath, and be honest.
Almost no tactical solution is worth fracturing a longer-term strategic
relationship.  I find humor helps a great deal.  I believe I have a good
reputation as practical and honest, and would leverage that to have a full
airing of all views, and come to a conclusion even if it means that some
parties are "in the rough."

I work very well with others.  I have made few enemies (that I am aware of)
even though I have had many disagreements over the years.

> 3.1 What do you see as the relationship between the IETF as a...

At times I feel we are always running the risk of sliding into irrelevance.
Our community is very non-diverse, including not just age, sex, and
nationality, but also state of career development.  Many of those who
participate "grew up" with the IETF. Where will the next generation come from?
The mentoring and outreach programs are among our most important and we need
to figure out how to expand their influence.

At other times, I know that the Internet depends on us.

At other times, in the wee small hours, I feel that it doesn't.  What would
have happened to the Internet and the IETF if Google didn't bring SPDY and
QUIC here, but instead launched separate consortia or just published documents
and open source code?  I am sure that the technical individuals involved in
these efforts wouldn't have wanted things to go that way, but what if it did?
How can we make sure that such a risk doesn't harm the IETF or the Internet?
I don't know.

> 3.2 What one thing do you think is most significant in decreasing the...

The risk that work that the Internet needs to be done isn't done here.
It is very easy to create a foundation, throw some source and docs there, and
invite everyone else to join. Depending on who starts it, it might even be
wildly successful.

We need to do timely specifications that can be implemented and address
real-world problems.

> 3.3 What one thing do you think increases the IETF's effectiveness as

Our ability to publish high-quality technical specifications that have a
broad consensus behind them.

> 3.4  How do you think the IESG should select and grow new work in the...

Kathleen explained to me that sometimes we create WG's just to bring new blood
into the organization. I am still trying to wrap my head around that.  It
makes sense, even if it ends up with WG's that don't produce anything useful.
Our sweet spot is "the bytes on the wire" and the more we stray from that
bright clear line the more we end up having irrelevant WG's.

If it involves pushing bytes over the Internet, or perhaps home networks, it
is relevant to us.  IoT is clearly relevant, and also clearly problematic.
I am not sure what else at this point. But I do know that I am a pretty
creative person, and while I won't invent a breakthrough, I am sure that I can
help figure out how to bring additional people and work into our wheelhouse.

> 4. IESG

> 4.1 What one item in this description do you find least like the...

The list of expertise is outdated.  It doesn't mention OAUTH, for example,
and does mention CMS and S/MIME which are basically the same thing.

> 4.2 What one item in this description do you find most fully typifies...

The final paragraph:
  The Security Area intersects with all other IETF Areas, and the Security ADs
  are expected to read and understand the security implications of documents
  produced by all IETF Areas. Security ADs become personally involved and
  coordinate the involvement of other security experts in the work of other
  Areas. Broad knowledge of IETF areas and technologies and the ability to
  assimilate new information quickly are imperative for a Security AD.

> 4.3 What one item would you be most likely to succeed at? What one...

My guess, not having done the job, is that I will be best at broad knowledge
and understanding implementation and deployment issues.  My weakness will be
having an understanding of all the minute details of particular crypto
mechanisms.  (But I know enough to use the jargon word mechanism, where to
look it up, and who the experts are that can educate me.)

> 4.4 What would you suggest to shrink the time commitment of the Area...

Again, not having done the job I am not sure.  Perhaps adding a third member.

> 4.5 How do you see area directorates aiding ADs for a particular Area?...

They are excellent at providing detailed review of RFC's.  I have seen this
first-hand.

I think commenting on potential new work, as is done in Transport, is a good
thing. I am less sure about process.

> 4.6 Is there one specific thing that you would like to accomplish during...

Even more collaboration between the security Area and the other areas.  More
emphasis on pulling newcomers into the fold.

> 5.1 What do you think is going well in the area for which you have..

I think Security produces technically-sound documents.  I find it jarring when
an IESG votes "no objection" and then provides pages of commentary (this is a
comment on the IESG, not the Security AD's specifically).

I don't think the AD should be thought of as the 800lb senior tech member of
all WG output.  But I appreciate that the job should be more than just
process.  I am not sure how to balance the two.  As long as the WG members and
chairs feel things are going well, then it might be okay.  It might all come
down to trust.  I am not sure.

If selected, I would work with the existing AD's to understand which WG's they
think are running well, and which ones are having problems.  And then work
with the WG chairs to address the problems, or perception of problems.  I
know that it a "well, duh" kind of answer, but I don't have any insider
information to know what the problems might be, and without knowing details,
am unwilling to promote any solution. I'll just have to trust that my charm
and good looks, not to mention my low-key sense of humor, will help us come to
the solutions needed.

> 5.2 What new work do you see likely to arrive in the area?...

We need to figure out something to do for IoT, even if it's just
strengthening the "border defenses."  The home router should probably be
enhanced so that it is not just a Maginot line. Maybe that's as simple a
matter as changing defaults in some protocols, maybe more is needed.  We need
to look at it because the devices themselves are so numerous, and the cost
margins so razor-tight, that expecting them to behave nicely, and securely, is
probably not going to work.

Blockchain is interesting, and still among the new hotness, but I don't see
much work for us until it becomes "bits on the wire."  Perhaps something about
distributed ledgers.  We were already able to influence one DL company (who
came and presented) to use standard data structures for their contracts.

As a general rule, I think the "bar BoF" to BoF to WG makes a lot of sense.  I
also think it's reasonable to short-circuit that path when the IESG thinks so.

> 6. INTERACTIONS WITH OTHER ADs

> 6.1 DISCUSS ballots
> What would be your criteria for voting DISCUSS on a document from another...

Before going on the record I would probably talk with the responsible AD to
let them know, and to see if my concerns are misplaced.  I do not think
DISCUSS must be a veto; if the IESG consensus is that the issues being raised
are acceptable, or even not issues, then the proper thing to do is probably
withdraw the DISCUSS or just OBJECT.

> If another AD votes DISCUSS on a document in your area, how would you
> like to see the process for resolving that?

"Do unto others."  Same as I described above.

> 6.2 How do you see your role as an AD in moving documents through the...

I have never heard that early reviews were thought of as QA reviews; that's
interesting, and implies a differing set of evaluation criteria. If so, I
think that's a bug that needs to be fixed.

I would rely heavily on the secdir reviews, but not solely.  I think having a
guarantee that at least one person read the I-D is important.  If chosen, I
think it would be more for my technical and soft skills talents then in my
ability to handle workflow.  Perhaps the IETF should consider professional
project management to help with that, which also might relieve some of the AD
burden.


> 7. TALENT AND CHAIR MANAGEMENT

> If you're a past or present AD, please describe your experience in these
> tasks, and how you'd change your approach if selected.

N/A

> 8 CONFLICTS BETWEEN MANAGER ROLE AND TECHNICAL CONTRIBUTION

> 8.1 As an Area Director, to what degree will you expect to remain a...

I would not expect to contribute much in the WG's where I am the responsible
AD.  I would keep vibrant (that's a nice word) through my day job (have I
mentioned that this includes OpenSSL and other real dev/deploy issues)
and be making a strong effort to be aware of everything the IETF is working
on.

> 8.2 How will you balance your management and technical responsibilities...

As I said above, I don't believe that being an AD means that you become the
main technical voice, with veto power, over the documents produced by all WG's
in your Area.  If I think something goes against other IETF (policy)
documents, I would point that out. If the WG proceeds, I would point out the
conflicts during IESG review.

If there are WG's that I feel particular involved in, I would try to not be
the AD for that/those groups.  TLSWG is the most likely group, but clearly ekr
could not be the responsible AD.  I believe the remaining issues in that group
don't require technical contribution from me, so I will make sure that
anything I say is clearly my personal opinion and not as an AD.  There is, of
course, an exception to that, which is the recent "share the keys" drafts.

> 8.3 Employers, trade associations and other groups with which an Area...

As long as there is full transparency, I have no problem.  I hate hidden
agenda's, just like I hate it when politicians directly lie to my face.

As for me, I have a long-time personal history of ethical and transparent
behavior, and I will not put that at risk.

My employer is in favor of me doing this, not because they have an agenda
they wish me to pursue, but because they can afford to spend the resources to
help improve the Internet.

> 9. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

> Is there any other information that you think is relevant to the
> NomCom's deliberation, but is not covered in the above?

No.  I am happy to field questions or comments.  I will assume that I can post
them in the repo unless explicitly asked to not do so.  I hope for an honest
and public dialog with anyone who cares.

In fact, let me comment on this:

> CONFIDENTIALITY: NOTE that the contents of this questionnaire will
> remain absolutely confidential to the nominations committee process.
> For the IESG, this means that it will be shared with the NomCom and
> with the confirming body, which is the currently sitting IAB.

	I think this is wrong.  I think candidate statements should be
	part of the public record.  This statement can be found at
	https://github.com/richsalz/ietf-nomcom-2017

	I do not know how to make that information public, without
	spamming the entire IETF and/or sounding like a conceited
	ass who feels they are entitled to spam the entire IETF.
	Perhaps there should be a general public "nomcomm-discuss"
	mailing list.


Footnotes:

[1] Yes it should be u-umlaut.  I don't know how to do that in a
    vi-edited text document on a Mac.  Consider that a meta-comment on the
    state of internationalization, if you will.

> 10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION - NOT FOR CONFIRMING BODY

Everything in this document is public as I said above.
