The following comes from this URL:
    https://datatracker.ietf.org/nomcom/2019/expertise/#pos-iab-member

----------------------

The IAB Role

The Internet Architecture Board (IAB) is chartered both as a committee of the
IETF and as an advisory body of the Internet Society (ISOC).

The IAB supports the operation of the IETF. It provides architectural input
into IETF technical activities as well as sponsoring and organizing work in
the IRTF.

The IAB acts as a source of advice and guidance concerning technical,
architectural and procedural matters pertaining to the Internet and its
enabling technologies.  Organizational Role

The IAB has a number of roles within the organizational functioning of the
IETF. While these roles require administrative rather than technical work,
they form a significant part of the IAB's activities.

  - The IAB has a role in the IETF Nominations Committee process: the IAB
    confirms the IETF Chair and the Area Directors (IESG).
  - The IAB serves as an appeal board for complaints of improper execution of
    the standards process, acting on appeals in respect of IESG standards
    decisions.
  - The IAB appoints ISOC Board of Trustees (BoT) members, a member of the IETF
    LLC, and similar positions in other Internet governance bodies.
  - The IAB hears appeals on matters related to the IETF LLC.
  - The IAB is responsible for the selection of the RFC Series Oversight
    Committee (RSOC) and for approving any recommendations of the RSOC which
    affect the RSE as an individual.
  - The IAB provides direction for the administration of the
    IETF's protocol parameters registries (the IANA function).
  - The IAB selects the chair of the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF) and
    oversees the IRTF's activities.
  - The IAB is responsible for interfacing with other organizations on behalf
    of the IETF. It does this primarily through its liaison process. When
    necessary, IAB members will more directly engage with those other
    organizations. IAB members serve as "shepherds" to individually oversee
    particular relationships.

All IAB members need to be prepared to participate (to varying degrees) in
these activities.

Architectural Role

A principal role of the IAB is to take a broad and long range perspective to
offer input into the planning and coordination among different areas of
Internet activities, including those of the IETF and IRTF. The sum of the
expertise of IAB members encompasses a broad range of technologies under IETF
and IRTF. The IAB is expected to pay attention to important long-term issues
in the Internet and to make sure that these issues are brought to the
attention of the groups that are in a position to address them, and to make
sure that the right people within these groups are in contact with each other.

The IAB maintains open communications channels with other bodies engaged in
Internet governance, including ICANN, the Regional Internet Registries, and
ISOC, and provides technical and architectural input as appropriate. As
needed, the IAB works with ISOC to provide advice and guidance to the Internet
community on technical, architectural, and policy matters pertaining to the
Internet and its enabling technologies. That advice and guidance are provided
to the public, to the Board of Trustees, and Officers of the Internet Society
as circumstances dictate.

Organization of the IAB

In order to enhance institutional memory and enable the development of medium
and long term activities, the IAB has organized its work in several areas in
the form of programs (see https://www.iab.org/activities/programs/). A program
is a long-term activity scoped and managed by the IAB comprised of a body of
technical experts from the wider community (see [RFC
2850](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2850) Section 2.1). Program outputs
include IAB documents and statements. All IAB members are expected to review
and comment on program outputs that represent the consensus of the IAB. In
order to ensure that all IAB activities have IAB participation, members of the
IAB are expected to actively participate in one or more programs.

The IAB schedules workshops on topics of interest from time to time, and IAB
members are encouraged to attend these as well.

In addition, the IAB chooses a chair for a one year term at the March IETF
meeting, after new members of the IAB are seated. There shall be at least two
members of the IAB (among the nominated slate and the incumbents) who are
willing and able to take the role of Chair.

IAB Member Qualities

IAB members are expected to act at the "Board" level.

The IAB is most effective when it is composed of a diverse set of individuals
with a broad range of technical skills, architectural perspectives and
backgrounds. For example, it is desirable for IAB members to have technical
leadership experience, operational management backgrounds, research or
academic backgrounds, implementation experience, and experience in other
bodies involved in Internet governance. Likewise it is desirable for IAB
members to have had experiences with differing technical challenges and
requirements, including those that vary by geographic region. It is critical
that IAB members be willing and able to work with each other to develop a
shared viewpoint.

Some IAB activities are very specialized - for example, managing liaison
relationships with other SDOs on behalf of the IETF. It is advantageous for
the IAB when NomCom ensures that at least some IAB members have sufficient
managerial skills to understand the issues that need to come to the IAB by
managing and documenting inter-SDO liaison relationships on a strategic basis.

While it is advantageous for at least some IAB membership to have expertise in
the IAB's current program topics, it is more important for the IAB to have
membership who are experienced in managing volunteer teams, and who can build
teams, motivate program work, and direct one or more programs even in the
absence of in-depth knowledge about specific program topics. The IAB needs at
least some members with program management skills that will facilitate
interfacing between programs and the IAB.

While these characteristics are all important, individuals have different
strengths. The IAB as a whole benefits most from a complementary and diverse
set of skills that are balanced across all aspects of the role.

Time Commitment

The time commitment for an IAB member averages about six to sixteen hours a
week in normal weeks (with significant week-to-week variability), and
full-time during IETF meetings, retreats, and IAB workshops. Some positions
within the IAB require more time. It is expected that IAB members also
actively participate in IETF activities. Simply tracking the various mailing
list and documents can take up to a day a week. About a quarter to half of the
time is spent on the organizational activities. Leading a program is an
equivalent time commitment to chairing a working group; active participation
in a program can take additional time. Each IAB member should be able to
commit to leading a program during their IAB term.

The typical time commitment for the IAB Chair is three days a week, and this
position may require more travel. The IAB Chair is an ex officio member of the
IESG and must devote time to IESG meetings including a yearly retreat, which
is often but not always adjacent to the IAB retreat.

IAB members may be called upon by ADs to do reviews of specialized documents
and other tasks, potentially adding to those numbers.

IAB members should plan to arrive at IETF meetings at or before the start of
the meeting week. Time commitment during the meeting includes time on Sunday,
early mornings during the week, during meal times, and Friday after scheduled
meetings conclude IAB members are expected to cover and report on BoFs during
the meeting.

The IAB typically holds an annual retreat from one to three days, and
teleconferences on a regular basis, currently 2-3 times a month.
