IETF Chair

The IETF Chair has six major roles: overseeing the work of the IETF as a
whole, representing the IETF to the outside world, overseeing the work of the
IESG in particular, serving as the General AD, serving as a voting member of
the IAB, and (if appointed by the IESG) serving as an IETF Administration LLC
Board member.

Serving as IETF Chair requires a full-time or near-full-time commitment. A
candidate for this position needs to be willing to put aside his or her own
technical work and other major professional roles for the duration of the
term.

Chairing the IETF requires excellent communications skills, strong leadership
skills, the ability and willingness to keep the community informed of all
issues that are important to the IETF as a whole, the ability to establish
community consensus on issues important to the IETF as a whole, and the
ability to speak and act in accordance with that consensus. Among other
things, this involves planning plenary sessions and leadership retreats and
effectively running meetings with over 1000 attendees.

In the IESG Chair role, the IETF Chair is responsible for coordinating the
activities of the other ADs and providing top-level management for the IETF
standards process. The IETF Chair must be capable of intervening when
difficulties arise between ADs or between an AD and a WG Chair. The IETF Chair
also oversees the handling of appeals sent to the IESG, the mechanisms for
IESG internal process change, and the production of any statements issued by
the IESG.

The General Area consists of very few WGs and other activities focused on
supporting, updating and maintaining the IETF standards development process.
As General AD, the IETF Chair should meet the generic requirements for an IESG
member listed above, and is expected to play a full role in IESG document
review and approval. The General AD must also have a strong understanding of
the IETF standards process and a commitment to maintain and improve that
process. The General AD manages the General Area Review Team (Gen-ART); the
Education, Mentoring, and Outreach (EMO) Directorate; the Tools Team; and the
Tools Architecture and Strategy Team.

The IETF Chair is a voting member of the Internet Architecture Board (IAB).
The IAB has a long history, but the IAB is currently viewed as the senior
committee working with the IETF to provide both architectural and oversight
functions for the development of the Internet. The IETF Chair brings important
perspective to the oversight of the RFC Editor, the IANA functions, and the
liaison process with other SDOs.

The IESG may choose to appoint the IETF Chair to the IETF Administration LLC
Board. As a board member, the IETF Chair would have fiduciary responsibility
to the LLC and would be involved in strategic planning, budget approval, and
fundraising on behalf of the IETF LLC. Although day-to-day management of
administrative matters is handled by the LLC staff, the IETF Chair will spend
some time each week on administrative business, particularly in the context of
ensuring the IETF is properly supported by its staff and contractors.

The IETF Chair is asked to speak at numerous conferences and to represent the
IETF to government officials, representatives of other standards bodies and
the press. While the IETF Chair has control over which of these invitations he
or she accepts, any candidate for this position should be willing and able to
represent the IETF effectively in these fora, in consultation with the IAB
Chair as appropriate.

The IETF Chair needs to be able to lead and work with others on communications
related to the IETF and its visions, values, work activities, and successes.
This includes being able to lead the community through difficult, contentious
discussions. It also includes answering requests to explain the IETF to people
who are not familiar with it or its work. To do this, the IETF Chair uses
different communication styles and methods than those needed to effectively
lead and work with others within the IETF. For example, the IETF Chair may be
asked to communicate with news media, help develop approaches for and use
channels such as social media, and speak with non-technical audiences beyond
the immediate IETF community.


IESG Member (Generic)

IESG members are the managers of the IETF standards process. They must
understand the way the IETF works, recognize where the organization needs to
evolve, be good at working with other people, be able to inspire and encourage
other people to work together as volunteers, and have sound technical judgment
about IETF technology and its relationship to technology developed elsewhere.

Area Directors (ADs) select the Working Group (WG) Chairs, and then work with
them to manage IETF WGs. Consequently, IESG members should possess sufficient
interpersonal and management skills to manage 15 to 30 part-time people. Most
ADs are also responsible for the management of one or more directorates or
review teams. The ability to identify good leaders and technical experts, and
then recruit them for IETF work and leadership at all levels is important.

ADs are also expected to understand where there is a need to change either
IETF processes or IETF's overall role, as the Internet and the industry around
it evolves.

An ideal IESG member has made significant technical contributions in more than
one IETF Area. The Area Director role includes significant people management,
for which prior experience chairing a working group will be useful  although
other people-management experience may be a reasonable substitute. Similarly,
the ability to review and usefully provide feedback on technical documents is
a necessary skill for IESG members, for which serving on an area directorate
or area review team would provide useful experience; active participation in
working groups and other, non-IETF technical review activities can also be
helpful in building such skills. Breadth of technical ability and the facility
to quickly grasp concepts outside of their strongest areas are more important
than specific technical expertise. Experience from a broad range of
backgrounds across the entire IESG is desirable.

An AD need not be the ultimate expert and authority in any technical area. The
abilities to manage, to guide and judge consensus, to know who the
subject-matter experts are and to seek their advice, and to mentor other IETF
participants to take the technical lead is at least as important as their own
technical abilities. Although the split varies from area-to-area, ADs can
expect to spend approximately 30% of their time on management tasks, with the
remainder being technical in nature.

An AD should be able to personally review every Internet-Draft that they
sponsor. For other Internet-Drafts an AD needs to be satisfied that adequate
review has taken place, though many ADs personally review these documents as
well. After the 2015 reorganization of IETF areas and IESG procedures,
assignments of ADs to specific working groups are more flexible than they were
previously, and can accommodate the expertise available in the IESG as a
whole.

It is very helpful for an IESG member to have a good working knowledge of the
IETF document process as well as WG creation and chartering process. This
knowledge is most likely to be found in experienced WG Chairs, but may also be
found in authors of multiple documents. It is very helpful for an IESG member
to have experience attending multiple IETF meetings, creating WG session
agendas, supervising WG sessions, and helping to arrange interim WG meetings.

IESG members must have strong oral and written communications skills. They
must have a proven track record of leading and contributing to the consensus
of diverse groups. They must be able to prioritize their work, and must
reliably follow through and finish the important work items in a timely
manner.

An IESG member should be able to guide WGs to follow their charters and
nurture new talent to fulfill IETF leadership roles in the future.

Basic IESG activities can consume significant time during a typical
non-meeting week. Enough time must be allocated to manage approximately 10 to
15 working groups, to read on the order of 500 pages of internet-drafts every
two weeks, and to follow up on document processing tasks. Many ADs allocate 15
hours or more per week to such tasks. Some ADs have been able to combine
significant other responsibilities with an AD role and/or delegate work to
area directorates, while others put a larger proportion of their hours into AD
responsibilities. A personal commitment is critical.

The time commitment varies by Area and by month, with the most intense periods
immediately before and during IETF meetings. ADs during their first year tend
to spend more time per week on AD work. Practices vary widely between IESG
members, however. Most IESG members also participate in additional IETF
leadership activities, further increasing the time commitment for those
individuals. ADs may need to interact with external groups such as other
standards development organizations (SDOs), which may require additional
travel. We have also found IESG member attendance at most IETF meetings to be
imperative, typically arriving one or two days early and leaving one day later
(for pre/post meeting activities). IESG members also attend one, and sometimes
two, IESG retreats per year, as well as occasional workshops and interim
meetings. An IESG member should ideally also be comfortable with working, and
developing professional relationships, in a virtual environment.

Because of the time and travel commitments, and awkwardly timed conference
calls, IESG members have found that good personal motivation and family and
sponsor support are important factors in making the role successful for them.
