IESG MEMBER DESIRED EXPERTISE
=============================

This note describes the expertise desired in the candidates selected to
fill the positions of all IESG members.

Under the Nominations Committee (NomCom) procedures defined in RFC
7437/BCP 10, the IESG is responsible for providing a summary of the
expertise desired of the candidates selected for open IESG positions.
This information is included below and is suitable for publication to
the community with the NomCom request for nominations.

We realize that this is a long list of desires and that no one person
will be able to meet all of the expertise for a specific position. We
trust that the NomCom will weigh all of these qualities and choose IESG
members who represent the best possible balance of them.

Generic IESG Member Expertise
-----------------------------

The IESG members are responsible for managing the IETF standards
process. They must possess a thorough understanding of IETF operations,
recognize areas in which the organization needs to evolve, and excel in
collaborative work. They must also be able to inspire and motivate
volunteers to work together and be adept at handling strong
personalities and loud voices, fostering an environment in which
discussions regarding ideas and technical merit may be held freely. An
important aspect of this is helping newcomers become productive at the
IETF and developing talent to fill important IETF roles in the future.
And, of course, IESG members must also have sound technical judgment
about IETF technology and its relationship to technology developed
elsewhere.

The Area Director (AD) role includes significant people management, for
which prior experience chairing a working group will be useful --
although other people-management experience may be a reasonable
substitute. ADs select the Working Group (WG) Chairs and then work with
them to manage IETF WGs. Consequently, IESG members should possess
sufficient interpersonal and management skills to manage 15 to 30
part-time volunteers. Most ADs are also responsible for the management
of one or more directorates or review teams. The ability to identify
good leaders and technical experts, and then recruit and rotate them for
IETF work and leadership at all levels is crucial to the growth and
success of the IETF.

ADs are also expected to recognize the need for changes in IETF
processes or in the organization's overall role, in response to the
evolving Internet and industry landscape.

An ideal IESG member has made significant technical contributions in
more than one IETF Area. Similarly, the ability to review and usefully
provide feedback on technical documents is a necessary skill for IESG
members, for which serving on an area directorate or area review team
would provide useful experience; active participation in working groups
and other, non-IETF technical review activities can also help build such
skills. A broad range of technical abilities and the capacity to quickly
comprehend concepts outside their primary areas of expertise are more
valuable than specific technical knowledge.

An AD need not be the ultimate expert and authority in any technical
area. The abilities to manage, guide, and judge consensus, to know who
the subject-matter experts are and to seek their advice, and to mentor
other IETF participants to take the technical lead are at least as
important as their technical abilities. Although the split varies from
area to area, ADs can expect to spend approximately 30% of their IESG
time on management tasks, with the remainder of their IESG time being
spent on technical matters.

An AD must be able to personally review every Internet Draft that they
sponsor. For other Internet Drafts, an AD needs to be satisfied that
adequate review has taken place, before bringing the document to the
IESG, though many ADs personally review these documents as well.

Experience attending multiple IETF meetings, creating Working Group (WG)
session agendas, supervising WG sessions, and assisting in arranging
interim WG meetings is highly beneficial for an IESG member.

IESG members must have strong oral and written communication skills.
They must have a proven track record of leading and contributing to the
consensus of diverse groups. They must be able to prioritize their work,
and must reliably follow through and finish the important work items
promptly.

An IESG member should be able to guide WGs to follow their charters and
nurture new talent to fulfill IETF leadership roles in the future.

ADs are responsible for ensuring the review of errata; they may delegate
the review or perform it personally. An AD should be able to process the
errata, which will often require them to identify and reach out to
relevant subject-matter experts, for documents that do not have an
associated Working Group.

ADs engage with IANA to identify and approve designated experts for
registries created and modified by document actions.

Basic IESG activities can consume significant time during a typical
non-meeting week. Enough time must be allocated to manage approximately
10 to 15 working groups, review up to 400 pages of Internet Drafts every
two weeks, and follow up on document processing tasks. Many ADs allocate
a minimum of 15 hours per week to such tasks and others up to 25 hours
per week. Some ADs have been able to combine significant non-IETF
responsibilities with an AD role and/or delegate work to area
directorates, while others put a larger proportion of their hours into
AD responsibilities. ADs should plan to support each other, occasionally
filling in for colleagues who are unavailable due to work or personal
matters. A personal commitment is critical.

The time commitment varies by Area and by month, with the most intense
periods immediately before and during IETF meetings. ADs during their
first year tend to spend more time per week on AD work. Practices vary
widely between IESG members, however. Most IESG members also participate
in additional IETF leadership activities, further increasing the time
commitment for those individuals. ADs may need to interact with external
groups such as other standards development organizations (SDOs), which
may require additional travel. We have also found IESG member in-person
attendance at most IETF meetings to be imperative, typically arriving
one or two days early and leaving one day later (to allow for
pre/post-meeting activities). IESG members also attend one, and
sometimes two, IESG retreats per year, as well as occasional workshops
and interim meetings. An IESG member should, ideally, also be
comfortable with working, and developing professional relationships, in
a virtual environment.

Because of the time and travel commitments, and awkwardly-timed
conference calls, IESG members have found that good personal motivation,
family and sponsor support are important factors in making the role
successful for them.

WIT AREA DIRECTOR
=================

See also general expertise for all area directors.

The Web and Internet Transport (WIT) area covers protocols that provide
the functions of the Transport Layer of the Internet, such as QUIC, TCP,
UDP, SCTP, and DCCP, including congestion control and queue management.
It also has responsibility for protocols that implement the World Wide
Web (like HTTP) and adjacent technologies.  This area is logically
divided into two parts - transport protocols and web protocols.

Together, the WIT Area Directors are expected to effectively charter,
manage, and review current and new transport and web protocol work,
including congestion control, loss recovery, Quality of Service (QoS,
including Differentiated Services and reservation signaling), Proxying
and tunneling, QUIC and HTTP protocol extensions, application network
interaction, real-time communication, and storage protocols for the
Internet.

At least one of the WIT ADs should have a broad understanding of core
end-to-end transport topics and knowledge about the widely used
transport protocols, such as TCP and QUIC, as well as how transport
protocols interact with network-layer technologies and protocols and
application layer protocols. The WIT area includes application-layer
protocols that sit above transport protocols and should not themselves
be considered "transport," but they are often or usually used by other
application-layer protocols as a layer between applications and
transport named "infrastructure protocols." Current work in this
category includes evolution, maintenance, and extensions to HTTP,
Audio/Video Transport, and codec development.  The WIT area also
develops interactive human-to-human communication (see RFC 3550). Groups
in this category are working on things such as real-time web
communications, teleconferencing, emergency services communication,
internet telephony, and instant messaging. At least one of the WIT area
ADs needs to have a good understanding of infrastructure and real-time
application protocols. However, they are not expected to be experts on
all or even most of these topics.  Rather, they are expected to work
well with WIT Area participants who are experts and to have enough
familiarity with the principles involved to exercise their judgment
about what should be done and why.

Because the transport protocol part of the WIT area working groups often
have common interests with IRTF research groups, especially ICCRG,
MAPRG, and PANRG, familiarity with these research groups and their
subject areas is helpful. Having at least one WIT Area AD with some
background in the broader research community is also helpful. There are
also open-source communities that implement transport area-related
protocols which are beneficial to have contact with.

The AD mostly responsible for transport protocols parts of the WIT area
will manage and recruit volunteers in order to maintain the Transport
Area Document Review Triage Team ("TSV triage team") and the Transport
Area Review Team (TSV-ART). The TSV triage team provides support for the
ADs by assigning document reviews to TSV-ART, and TSV-ART provides
reviews on request and during Last Call that can be used by the ADs as
input for their ballot positions. The ADs may delegate any tasks that
can be delegated, but the ADs themselves still have the ultimate
responsibility to ensure that transport considerations are appropriately
taken into account during IESG Evaluation.

Having an overall architectural view of security and privacy, NAT and
Firewall, encapsulation and tunneling, and higher-layer technologies are
of added value.

The WIT Area often discusses topics that involve other SDOs. As a
result, the set of WIT ADs needs to include the ability and experience
to relate to a wide range of non-IETF organizations, such as the W3C,
3GPP, and ITU-T.

Together, the WIT ADs are expected to organize their workload, e.g.,
document review, email discussions as follow-up to document review, IESG
emails, WG management, etc., in such a way that the average workload for
each AD is about 20 to 30 hours per week.
